---
  layout: post
  canonical_url: "https://medium.com/@dougvk/blockchain-101-trust-5aa7113c25d5"
  author: dougvk
  date:   2017-05-19 12:00:00 -0500
  title: "Blockchain 101: Trust"
  image: "/assets/images/posts/Blockchain-101-Trust/trust_fall.jpg"
  tags: [Blockchain, Society, Law, Government, Economics]
  excerpt: "Blockchain is a fundamental upgrade: an invention to solve trust,
  with broad implications for society. In the future, interactions that rely on
  trusting strangers will be mediated by some form of blockchain. These
  relationships underlie the most fundamental aspects of society, creating a
  world of opportunity. There are many kinds of blockchain products, and
  **trust** is the foundation for all of them. "
---

Blockchain is a fundamental upgrade: an invention to solve trust, with broad
implications for society. In the future, interactions that rely on trusting
strangers will be mediated by some form of blockchain. These relationships
underlie the most fundamental aspects of society, creating a world of
opportunity. There are many kinds of blockchain products, and **trust** is the
foundation for all of them.

Corporations, governments, and civilization-at-large are just beginning to
incorporate blockchain. This series to help you understand blockchain
intuitively — a map to navigate the terrain — while the Blockchain Wars are
waged. In this post, I’ll detail three scenarios in which blockchain is clearly
applicable. The problems with each involve a **lack of trust**. The social
implications of adding a layer of trust to society makes blockchain an
unstoppable force.

1.  **DELETE**—Information is only as durable as the container in which it’s
    stored. When Haiti was hit by the 2010 earthquake, the municipal buildings
    containing paper records, such as land titles were destroyed. All ownership
    in Haiti disappeared. Moving this information to computers reduces the
    exposure considerably, however, these storage centers are consolidated, and
    still vulnerable to political turmoil and climate catastrophe. **Moving this
    information to blockchain solves this problem entirely.**

2.  **ALTER**—Information isn't easily verifiable. Consider when Trump decides
    to 'improve' public climate data. Scientists scrambled to download the
    climate data before his administration ‘fixed’ it. Consider shipping
    containers, which travel all over the globe. A robot loads a container onto
    a cargo ship in a matter of minutes. A piece of paper (the bill of lading)
    can stall a container for weeks — often, it goes missing because someone is
    fraudulently ‘improving’ it. The paper must also be stamped and exchanged
    dozens of times during its journey. The cost of moving this container
    includes the cost of tracking this paper. **Blockchain can offer an
    indisputable electronic audit trail.**

3.  **CONTROL**—We rely on others to distribute information. Consider
    publishing a book, writing a blogpost, tweet, Facebook post, comments, etc..
    All of these go through entities that can deny, censor, or silence your
    content. Who are our modern gatekeepers? Twitter blocks tweets, Facebook
    hides your post, Google downgrades your content, your government monitors
    your internet — silently, with no recourse. Everything you’ve published or
    read was approved and promoted by something else. **Blockchain allows anyone
    to control who can know about and access their information.**

> These three fundamental problems have never been completely solved.

Each of these problems relies on trust. Slowly, over millennia, humans have
evolved better technologies of trust. Technologies like law, money,
corporations, and government free us from the burden of trusting strangers.
Increasing trust in these abstract ideas liberates us from the burden of knowing
everyone. Even with their warts, these institutions empowered us to scale
societies from tribes to nations of millions.

Institutions let us grow our civilization by administering the tasks that we
don’t want to think about. **This is the benefit of trust.** We trust things to
facilitate interactions neutrally. The Federal Reserve Bank (FED) takes care of
keeping the USD stable. Ratings agencies monitor levels of risk across the
world. Uber and AirBnB take care of matchmaking, reputation, and payments. All
we have to do is have money and decide where to go.

The role of trust explains why finance is tightly coupled with politics.
Political mishaps unleash financial misfortunes and vice versa. The 2008
financial crisis started with credit ratings industries that grade levels of
trust. Predictably, they were corrupted by the money flowing from Wall Street
and lobbyists to influence their ratings. The world footed the bill for their
misplaced trust.

The problems that law, money, corporations, and government all share stem from
**centralization as a solution to trust**. When two strangers interact — buying
coffee, filing a lawsuit, downloading climate data, reading a blog post,
transferring property — they trust in many other things to facilitate the
relationship. Unhappily, **these mediators aren't neutral third parties**. They
can delete, alter, and control. Indeed, they often grow so large that they shape
society — Facebook and Twitter revamped the nature of global elections; Uber
altered global transportation; Wal-Mart remade middle America. And, we’re still
paying for our corrupted ratings agencies that directed global investors into a
high risk disaster.

> Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which we
> can perform without thinking about them.
>
> — Alfred North Whitehead

Increasing centralization via the internet has created an immense amount of
pressure on society, reshaping our interactions around the things that save us
time and thought. Once blockchain matures, it will morph society as much as the
internet. History shows us that upgrading technologies for trusting strangers
has shaped our world:

- **Tribes — up to 150 people**. The tribe members know one another intimately.
  The tribe enforces, punishes, and shames those who violate custom. **Trust was
  between people with shared local customs, language, and gods — enforced by
  community**.

- **Pre-industrial, agricultural civilizations — thousands of people.** These
  civilizations relied on **_increasing circles of trust_** — family, community, ruler.
  Still intimate, but larger and lightly mediated by **_trusted authority figures and religion_**.

- **Industrial, nation-based civilizations — millions of people.** Circles
  of trust has moved to **trust in markets, institutions, and government.**
  'Become individuals. Live and do whatever you wish.' This is nationalism plus
  consumerism. Your level of freedom is determined by your citizenship. Better
  citizenship, better institutional access, more freedom.

- **Post-industrial, globalist — billions of people.** Anyone in the world can
  have a secure interaction with anyone else using blockchain, without relying
  on a trusted third party.

Improved technologies for trusting others allowed societies to scale up to
their current capacity. Turns out, in order to solve the problems of delete,
alter, and control, you have to design a technology whose main feature ensures
that **nobody controls it** and **everyone can use it.** Blockchain will do just
that, and open the door to truly global societies.
